# Research Project - David Zingerman - 2023
Systematic Identification of Putative Immunity Genes Associated with Polymorphic Toxins

Absract:
Bacteria employ a large variety of molecular weaponry as part of their competitive efforts. Two main tools in their arsenal are toxins-antitoxin (TA) systems and polymorphic toxins (e.g. effectors). Commonly, both toxins from TA systems and polymorphic toxins are thought to be specific to their cognate immunity protein. That said, recent discoveries provide evidence from the existence of promiscuous antitoxins, which neutralize many different toxins in the context of TA systems. In this study, we wanted to check weather such relationships can be found between polymorphic toxins and their immunity proteins. In order to answer this question we developed a bioinformatic pipeline for the identification of putative immunity genes associated with polymorphic toxins. The pipeline incorporates various computational methods, including sequence similarity search, gene neighborhood analysis, structural novelty verification, and interaction scoring. By employing these techniques, a total of five novel putative immunity proteins (nPIMs) were discovered. The nPIMs are predicted to neutralize their cognate toxins specifically, hence not exhibiting promiscuity. Nonetheless this study demonstrates the utility of a neighbors-based approach in the discovery of bacterial polymorphic toxin-immunity systems. The findings highlight the genetic synteny observed in these systems, laying the groundwork for future exploration of polymorphic toxins and immunity proteins.
